doc/source/apps/squirrel/manual.rst, before:


.. image:: /static/squirrel.svg
   :align: left

Squirrel command line tool manual
=================================

The :program:`squirrel` command line tool is a front-end to the :doc:`Squirrel
data access infrastructure </topics/squirrel>`.

.. raw:: html

   <div style="clear:both"></div>

It offers functionality to

* inspect various aspects of a data collection.
* pre-scan / index file collections.
* download data from online sources (FDSN web services, earthquake catalogs).
* convert large data collections (file format and directory layout)
* manage separate (isolated, local) environments for different projects.
* manage persistent selections to speed up access to very large datasets.

Please read the :doc:`Tutorial <tutorial>` to get started with the ``squirrel``
command line tool.

Command reference
-----------------

The :app:`squirrel` tool and its subcommands are self-documenting with the
``--help`` option. Run ``squirrel`` without any options to get the list of
available subcommands.  Run ``squirrel SUBCOMMAND --help`` to get details about
a specific subcommand, e.g. ``squirrel scan --help``.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   squirrel <reference/squirrel>

.. _squirrel_common_options:

Common options
--------------

Options shared between subcommands are grouped into three categories:

* **General options** include ``--loglevel`` to select the
  program's verbosity and ``--progress`` to control how progress status is
  indicated. These are provided by all of Squirrel's subcommands.

* **Data collection options** control which files and other data sources should
  be aggregated to form a dataset. Use the ``--add`` option to add files and
  directories. Further options are available to include/exclude files by
  regular expression patterns, to restrict to use selected content kinds only
  (waveform, station, channel, response, event), to create persistent data
  selections and more. Finally, the ``--dataset`` option is provided to
  configure the dataset conveniently in a YAML file rather than repeatedly with
  the many command line options. Using ``--dataset`` includes the possibility
  to add online data sources.

* **Data query options** are used to restrict processing/presentation to a
  subset of a data collection. They have no influence on the data collection
  itself, only on what is shown. It is possible to query by time interval
  (``--tmin``, ``--tmax``, ``--time``), channel/station code pattern
  (``--codes``), and content kinds (``--kinds``).

Examples
--------

.. contents :: Content
  :local:
  :depth: 4

Check data integrity
....................

I am not sure if my Mini-SEED waveforms and StationXML metadata are properly
organized and if the station epochs are correctly specified. How do I check the
integrity of my dataset?

::

  squirrel check --add data/raw meta/stations.xml

Data inventory
..............

My professor gave me a huge collection of waveforms and metadata. How can
I get an overview on the available data?

Get overview on time spans of waveforms, channels, stations, responses::

  squirrel coverage --add data/

List available codes::

  squirrel codes --add data/

List some details about all data entities of kind ``channel``::

  squirrel nuts --add data/ --kind channel --style summary

List all files containing waveforms from station XYZ::

  squirrel files --add data/ --codes '*.XYZ.*.*' --kind waveform

List all data entities matching a given time span::

  squirrel nuts --add data/ --tmin '2020-02-22 10:00' --tmax '2020-02-23 05:00'

Renaming waveform channel codes
...............................

I have waveforms with channels named ``p0``, ``p1`` and ``p2``. I would like to
rename them to ``HHZ``, ``HHN``, and ``HHE``, respectively::

  squirrel jackseis --add data/old --out-sds-path data/new --rename-channel 'p0:HHZ,p1:HHN,p2:HHE'

This will create a new directory hierarchy in SDS layout under ``data/new``
with the modified waveforms.

For further possibilities, look for ``--rename-channel`` in the output of
``squirrel jackseis --help``.

Set network code on a set of waveforms
......................................

I have waveforms where the network code is partially missing and partially
incorrect. I would like to set it for all waveforms to XX::

  squirrel jackseis --add data/old --out-sds-path data/new --rename-network XX

Convert raw waveforms to instrument-corrected ground velocity
.............................................................

I would like to convert raw waveforms to ground velocity in m/s. I have
continuous waveforms and I don't want to have any gaps in the output::

  squirrel jackseis --add data/raw meta/stations.xml --out-sds-path data/velocity \
     --quantity velocity --band 0.1,10

This will restitute the seismograms to ground velocity in the frequency band
0.1 to 10 Hz. It uses :py:meth:`pyrocko.trace.Trace.transfer` under the hood.
The frequency taper involved is flat between 0.1 and 10 Hz and decays to zero
at 0.1/2 and 10*2 Hz.

Reducing memory consumption when converting data with ``squirrel jackseis``
...........................................................................

Data is processed in time blocks matching the time increment given with
``--tinc`` (plus padding). All available data in the current block is loaded
into memory. This may lead to excessive memory usage when lots of channels are
available in the dataset.

Add ``--traversal sensor`` to process the dataset sensor by sensor. It will run
a loop over time for each sensor in the dataset and thus use less memory.

Convert DiGOS/Omnirecs DATA-CUBE recordings to MiniSEED
.......................................................

I want to convert some continuous DATA-CUBE recordings into Mini-SEED format.
The output should be in SDS structure::

  squirrel jackseis --add data/data-cube --out-sds-path data/mseed --rename-network XX

This will resample the data with sinc interpolation using the GPS information
in the raw data. Add ``-rename-station ...``, ``--rename-channel ...`` as
needed.

**Note:** Always give the complete recording directory as input as the GPS
information from neighboring files may be used for an optimal time correction

Commit message:

docs: add squirrel jackseis downsample example

doc/source/apps/squirrel/manual.rst, after:


.. image:: /static/squirrel.svg
   :align: left

Squirrel command line tool manual
=================================

The :program:`squirrel` command line tool is a front-end to the :doc:`Squirrel
data access infrastructure </topics/squirrel>`.

.. raw:: html

   <div style="clear:both"></div>

It offers functionality to

* inspect various aspects of a data collection.
* pre-scan / index file collections.
* download data from online sources (FDSN web services, earthquake catalogs).
* convert large data collections (file format and directory layout)
* manage separate (isolated, local) environments for different projects.
* manage persistent selections to speed up access to very large datasets.

Please read the :doc:`Tutorial <tutorial>` to get started with the ``squirrel``
command line tool.

Command reference
-----------------

The :app:`squirrel` tool and its subcommands are self-documenting with the
``--help`` option. Run ``squirrel`` without any options to get the list of
available subcommands.  Run ``squirrel SUBCOMMAND --help`` to get details about
a specific subcommand, e.g. ``squirrel scan --help``.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3

   squirrel <reference/squirrel>

.. _squirrel_common_options:

Common options
--------------

Options shared between subcommands are grouped into three categories:

* **General options** include ``--loglevel`` to select the
  program's verbosity and ``--progress`` to control how progress status is
  indicated. These are provided by all of Squirrel's subcommands.

* **Data collection options** control which files and other data sources should
  be aggregated to form a dataset. Use the ``--add`` option to add files and
  directories. Further options are available to include/exclude files by
  regular expression patterns, to restrict to use selected content kinds only
  (waveform, station, channel, response, event), to create persistent data
  selections and more. Finally, the ``--dataset`` option is provided to
  configure the dataset conveniently in a YAML file rather than repeatedly with
  the many command line options. Using ``--dataset`` includes the possibility
  to add online data sources.

* **Data query options** are used to restrict processing/presentation to a
  subset of a data collection. They have no influence on the data collection
  itself, only on what is shown. It is possible to query by time interval
  (``--tmin``, ``--tmax``, ``--time``), channel/station code pattern
  (``--codes``), and content kinds (``--kinds``).

Examples
--------

.. contents :: Content
  :local:
  :depth: 4

Check data integrity
....................

I am not sure if my Mini-SEED waveforms and StationXML metadata are properly
organized and if the station epochs are correctly specified. How do I check the
integrity of my dataset?

::

  squirrel check --add data/raw meta/stations.xml

Data inventory
..............

My professor gave me a huge collection of waveforms and metadata. How can
I get an overview on the available data?

Get overview on time spans of waveforms, channels, stations, responses::

  squirrel coverage --add data/

List available codes::

  squirrel codes --add data/

List some details about all data entities of kind ``channel``::

  squirrel nuts --add data/ --kind channel --style summary

List all files containing waveforms from station XYZ::

  squirrel files --add data/ --codes '*.XYZ.*.*' --kind waveform

List all data entities matching a given time span::

  squirrel nuts --add data/ --tmin '2020-02-22 10:00' --tmax '2020-02-23 05:00'

Renaming waveform channel codes
...............................

I have waveforms with channels named ``p0``, ``p1`` and ``p2``. I would like to
rename them to ``HHZ``, ``HHN``, and ``HHE``, respectively::

  squirrel jackseis --add data/old --out-sds-path data/new --rename-channel 'p0:HHZ,p1:HHN,p2:HHE'

This will create a new directory hierarchy in SDS layout under ``data/new``
with the modified waveforms.

For further possibilities, look for ``--rename-channel`` in the output of
``squirrel jackseis --help``.

Set network code on a set of waveforms
......................................

I have waveforms where the network code is partially missing and partially
incorrect. I would like to set it for all waveforms to XX::

  squirrel jackseis --add data/old --out-sds-path data/new --rename-network XX

Convert raw waveforms to instrument-corrected ground velocity
.............................................................

I would like to convert raw waveforms to ground velocity in m/s. I have
continuous waveforms and I don't want to have any gaps in the output::

  squirrel jackseis --add data/raw meta/stations.xml --out-sds-path data/velocity \
     --quantity velocity --band 0.1,10

This will restitute the seismograms to ground velocity in the frequency band
0.1 to 10 Hz. It uses :py:meth:`pyrocko.trace.Trace.transfer` under the hood.
The frequency taper involved is flat between 0.1 and 10 Hz and decays to zero
at 0.1/2 and 10*2 Hz.

Reducing memory consumption when converting data with ``squirrel jackseis``
...........................................................................

Data is processed in time blocks matching the time increment given with
``--tinc`` (plus padding). All available data in the current block is loaded
into memory. This may lead to excessive memory usage when lots of channels are
available in the dataset.

Add ``--traversal sensor`` to process the dataset sensor by sensor. It will run
a loop over time for each sensor in the dataset and thus use less memory.

Convert DiGOS/Omnirecs DATA-CUBE recordings to MiniSEED
.......................................................

I want to convert some continuous DATA-CUBE recordings into Mini-SEED format.
The output should be in SDS structure::

  squirrel jackseis --add data/data-cube --out-sds-path data/mseed --rename-network XX

This will resample the data with sinc interpolation using the GPS information
in the raw data. Add ``--rename-station ...``, ``--rename-channel ...`` as
needed.

Downsampling
------------

I want to create a downsampled variant of my dataset::

  squirrel jackseis --add data/raw --out-sds-path data/raw-50hz --out-data-type int32 --downsample 10

The output will be sampled at 10 Hz and the datatype in the Mini-SEEDs will be
32-bit integers. Without the ``--out-data-type`` option, the the output would
be in double-precision floating point format.


**Note:** Always give the complete recording directory as input as the GPS
information from neighboring files may be used for an optimal time correction
